In this video, we're going to be talking about
Touchscreen Joystick Control. Now, I've been
told off by a psychologist for saying things
that are different to the words on the screen,
so I'm doing it right now, because there are
lots of words on the screen and I'm talking
to you, and you don't know what to focus on.
So, when I read the outcome from slides, in
the future, I'm going to read them verbatim
and I'd be interested in your response in
the discussions, as to if that's easier. So,
here we go. In this video, using the MobileSingleStickControl
prefab, creating a button to trigger the replay,
a little more about UI anchors, and building
to Android and testing performance. Ah, there
you go, I read it exactly as it said. So,
here we are in the game. What I want to do
firstly, is talk to you about this Mobile
Single Stick Control prefab and how all that
stuff works. So, if you dive into Standard
Assets, CrossPlatformInput, and Prefabs, you
should find this thing here, MobileSingle
StickControl prefab. Drag that into your Hierarchy. Now,
if your Build Settings are PC, like this, Mac,
Linux, this won't actually put any User
Interface or do anything to your game particularly.
It will just sit there as a prefab. Here it
is. So, one thing that these prefabs need,
before they are going to work, is an Event
Manager, so if you haven't already gotten
an Event Manager add one. And if you have
already got an Event Manager, then you can
add one anyway. It just won't do anything.
[Laughs] So, if you already have one, and
you're trying out a second nothing happens.
By Event Manager I mean Event System. So,
this Event System, of course, processes input.
So, with that Event System in place, what
happens is if you switch your project to a
Mobile Project, so in this case I'm going
to switch mine over to Android now, and I'm going
to switch platform. Then, that prefab contains
some User Interface, it contains a little
picture of a joystick and it contains a jump
button. So, what we're going to do is, we're
going to make the joystick work like the left
stick of the game pad or the cursor keys,
on the keyboard, and we're going to make the
button, or one of the buttons at least, do
the replay. I just want to show you how you
would use off the shelf mobile control
prefab like this, and it's pretty handy. OK,
it's doing it. My switch platform takes a
while. It's going to take a while on this
project, because you've got all of these Standard
Assets, and what it's having to do now is
go through all of those Standard Assets and
recompile all the images into formats that
are appropriate for the target platform and
to check that they're all the right type and
that they're all OK for that platform. It's
just got a lot of conversion work to do,
but you only have to do it once each time you
change target build platform. Another cleaver
thing about this Mobile Single Stick Control
thingy, is that if you switch back to Mac,
PC, Linux this interface that has appeared
here, this button and this joystick, they
will disappear again, so they'll only appear
when it's an appropriate platform. Pretty
cool hey! So, we have this on the screen now,
so the question becomes how do we make this
actually control our game? Well, let's start
by just trying it, without even doing anything.
What happens? Ah well, it just works. [Laughs]
And that's in this case that's because, if
you look at this joystick, this MobileJoystick
object in your Hierarchy and then, scroll
down in the Inspector you can see that it's
already mapping the horizontal movement of
the joystick to the Horizontal Axis, the Axis
named Horizontal in the Input Manager over
here. OK, so that's why it's just working
off the shelf, but you can remap that to
do different things. Now, vertical movement,
of course won't do anything, because we have
no Vertical Axis responding to anything in
the game,. at the moment. It looks like it's
doing something, but that's only because I'm
moving left and right horizontally. And
what does this white button do, at the moment?
What does this button do? Boing! It does the
jump. Fantastic! So, the reason it does the
jump... I'm just going to move it slightly,
by they way, in the UI Configuration Mode,
I'm going to go in here and just move this
button around a little. So, when you move
the button, look at all the different elements
here. What am I moving? It's worth thinking
about what's actually moving there.
Well, it's the wrecked transform of the button,
yeah of the text element of the button, so
that's where it would say the word jump, if
it did. So, you want to make sure, in the
Hierarchy, you've go the right thing selected,
so now I'm moving the entire button, but notice
I'm not moving it's anchors, you see it's
anchors have stayed where they are.
So, I just want to talk to you very briefly about
these anchors, that you can start to manipulate
these manually, now that you know a bit more
about Unity. Rather than using these presets,
that just set these anchors anyway, you can
grab these and say, well basically you're
saying to this button, this is the area on
the screen I want you to stay in, something
like that. Yeah, so if you put it like that
and then, you go over the canvass at the edge
here and drag, you see it says the word Preview,
and that's showing you how this button would
re-scale, as you change the resolution of
the device. Now, if you don't want that, say
you don't want it to scale vertically, then
you just bring the anchors together vertically
like that, and then, it no longer scales vertically,
it just anchors to that point. If you wanted
it to anchor to a lower point and not re-scale,
then again you would go to the anchors of
the button, make sure you've got the right
thing up, and you would grab them, it can
be a bit tricky, and you'd move them. So,
if you said, well I want it absolutely, you
know, 10% of the way off the bottom of the
screen here, but I don't want it to re-scale
vertically then, it's all a little fiddly,
but that's exactly what you can do with these
anchors. So, you can say OK, don't re-scale vertically
and sit 10% off the bottom of the screen,
as indicated by the 10% you can just see at
the bottom of the Scene Window.
So, let's try that, let's do a preview by going left
and right. It re-scales horizontally but it
doesn't re-scale vertically. Now, if you want
it to not re-scale horizontally, of course
you bring the anchor points together horizontally.
Cool! So, that's something about anchor points
and also, about previewing the effects of
screen shape changes without actually having
to go into the Game View or even change the
Game View. Fantastic! So, what I would like
you to do is see if you can work out how to
make this button, rather than jump for now,
see if you can make it recreate the replay.
So, I'm going to change its text to replay, and
see if you can make it actually trigger
the replay. Alright, so your challenge is,
setup a Replay Button. Make a Replay Button,
we've already got one, or make another one.
Choose a relevant sprite, you may need to
rotate the sprite, and test the button triggers
the replay. Congratulations and welcome back!
So sprite, firstly, let's just change the
look of this button. Now, bear in mind that
all buttons are just images with text elements
subbed to them, so if you go to the jump button
bit here, I'm going to rename it Replay, as
an entity just so I know what I'm doing. And
then, under the Source Image of the button,
the top element not the text element, you
go of course and choose yourself, from this
little list that'll come up if we're lucky...
If we click to the right of Source Image we
should get, Select Sprites, come up on my
other screen, and I'm going to use, I don't know,
say that button there. Now, I said we
may need to re-size it and re-shape it, that's
true. I'm going to do that, and then, probably
rotate it as well, through the... which axis?
It's going to be Z, because it's sticking
out the screen, by say 90 degrees. That's
alright. Ooh OK, so I'm not going to mess
around with this too much now. You don't want to watch
me re-sizing and re-scaling things forever, so you get the idea. We've changed
the button, you've done all this before. Now,
the important thing is the button behavior.
Where do we get the button behavior from?
Again, it's on the button itself and then, we have
an Event Handler here. And then, the question
comes, well, what virtual button input name
were we using for replay? Well, I've forgotten,
so I'm going to go into the ReplaySystem,
and I'm going to go down and have a look and
see in the main loop. OK, it's not in the
ReplaySystem. The ReplaySystem looks at the
manager, so it's in the Manager Script.
The Game Manager Script is where we change the
state, and it's ("Fire1"). OK, so the Game
Manager reads the Cross Platform Input Manager
and looks for button ("Fire1") to say whether we're
in replay or not. So, let's do that!
Let's map the Replay Button, rather than it
firing out to jump, let's make it send out
to ("Fire1"). OK, try that. So, left and right, and then,
if I... Here you go. Now, it's got
the replay bug we talked about before,
which I'm not going to show you how to solve, because
I really think at this stage in the course,
I'm not going to show you how to solve every
single problem. The moment you start
trying to make your own games, you are going to run
into problems that nobody is there to help you...
Well, there will be tons of people
there to help, it's called everybody on
the Internet and us friendly lot, but you
do need to get used to solving problems yourself.
But you can see that this button is doing the
thing, there you go. So, the Replay Button
is in place, which is pretty cool hey! So,
we are basically there with what we wanted to
do on this video. If you want to build
this to Android, then where we've got it set,
it's literally just a question of saying
Build & Run, with an Android attached, and
if everything is set up properly on your environment.
then this will send this game to the Android
machine. And I have run it on my Android and
it does perform just fine. Bear in mind, this
bundle identifier is a very common error you'll
get. No bundle identifier, set up. You change
that in your Build Settings, so File, Build
Settings, and then you need to come into Player
Settings, which it's already presented you
with on the right hand side over here. And
it is the Bundle Identifier that you need
to change, which is somewhere around here.
Yeah! So, what it is, is it's a combination
of the Default Company, which I say EmbraceIT
and the Product Name. I'll just call it TwinStick.
And those two things together should be all
you need for the Bundle Identifier. Now, let's
try it. The slightly irritating thing about
this, is it doesn't complain about it until
it's done a load of work, but it's OK because
it remembers that work. You can see it's picked
up from where I left it. Nope, it
still doesn't like the Bundle Identifier, so somewhere in
here I have to setup the Bundle Identifier.
Where are we? Ah, the settings, here it is!
It's under other settings, OK. So, com. and then,
I'm just going to do EmbraceIT. You
can put whatever you like, by the way .TwinStick.
You just need to give it a feasible looking
Bundle Identifier there. And I'm going to
build again, and we'll be off to go. So, that's
just a very common thing that you're going
to come across is Bundle Identifier Issues.
This where it says Save, I'm saving the build
so that I don't have to rebuild it in the
future. You can deploy the .apk file straight
to the Android, by basically dragging it to
the Android File Manager, if you want to in the future.
So, we'll just let that build, and
then, we'll wind up this video. Nothing else
is going to happen, I'm just going to show
that this builds to Android and that's it. In the next
video, we're going to be looking
at the next thing along, which is level unlocks,
very briefly, to show you a really quick way
of doing that with player prefs. So, it
is now pushing the content to my device, so we're
good to go. It's on the Android,
it's running on the Android, and the touch button
is working fine. So, see you soon.